In this video I'm going to tell you about a data type in Python called a dictionary.
A dictionary is a way to store different kinds of information and be able to access it using keywords.
If you are familiar with the MATLAB programming language, then a Python dictionary is a little bit like
a matlab structure.
All right.
So let's switch to Python and we'll just immediately dive right in.
There are a few different ways to create a dictionary in Python.
I'm going to create one using the function dict. So to create a dictionary using the dict function you
have to specify key value pairs.
So a key is like the keyword that you're using.
So for example let's say fruit.
And then the value of the key fruit is... I'll make this a list.
Let's say Banana and maybe Apple.
Those sound like good fruit items.
So this is one key value pair.
Now I'm going to have another pair and let's call that numbers and I'll make this one a list as well
as let's say 1 3 4 2 7.
So now we have our dictionary and I can print out the dictionary D. You can see when the dictionary
printed out it put everything into these curly brackets here and then you see the key and then a colon
and then the items or the values.
So key
colon items. So you can list all of the keys by using the method keys, so let's say key d dot keys and now it prints
out the two keys, so fruit and numbers.
And now if you want to access the items from are the values from a particular key you can use square
brackets after the dictionary name.
So let's say D fruit is banana and apple.
Now let's say you just wanted to access one of these, for example the first one banana.
Then after accessing all the values of this key You put another square brackets and you would say zero.
And that gives you banana.
And of course you could also say one for Apple.
You can try saying 10, but here we're going to get an error and it says list index out of range.
That's because there are not so many fruits in this dictionary.
Okay so the question is what is the size of this dictionary in python.
Now in some sense there's like one two three four five six seven eight nine things inside this dictionary.
However, if you ask for the length of the dictionary ,what Python is actually going to return is the number
of keys -- that corresponds to two.
There's one key for fruit one key for numbers.
Okay.
So I showed you how to access the items of a particular key this way and then I just want to show you
that there is a second way to do this as well. You can type D, or the name of the dictionary, dot get
and then in the parentheses, also the name of the key like this.
And of course accessing a single element is the same as I showed before.
Okay.
So I want to show you how to loop through or how to interact with dictionaries inside a for loop.
So I'm going to say for items in D, print the items.
So now when I press control enter to run the code in this cell, this prints out two sets of things and
that's because Python recognizes the length of this dictionary as two. When you have a for loop like this,
where the collection item here after the the keyword in is the dictionary then python is going to loop
over all of the keys inside that dictionary.
So actually maybe I should have used keys like this instead of items... no matter, we get the same result.
Now I want to get to the exercise for this video.
So the exercise here is basically to implement these three equations using sympy.
So X and Y are going to be symbolic variables, so you implement these three equations and then you want
to group these into a dictionary where one key in the dictionary
are the equations with an X terms -- that would be the first and third -- and the second key in the dictionary
is for the equations with the y term, which is actually just this one equation here.
And then what you should do is loop over the keys in the dictionary and basically print out a screen
that looks like this.
So looping through the keys, we get one equation for x and or one key for the equations with X.
One key for the equations with Y and then within those keys, you need to set that equation equal
to zero like this, and then solve for x or solve for y, and make a nice print out like this.
Okay so good luck.
This is a relatively challenging exercise compared to some of the previous videos.
So take a deep breath, have some patience, and work your way through it.
And now when you're ready.
I am now going to switch to Python and show you how I solved this exercise.
All right.
So let me create a new cell down here.
First of all, we need to import the sympy toolbox, so import sympy as sym.
And then we want to create symbolic variables for x and y, so X comma Y equals sym dot symbols X and
Y.
And now I want to create a dictionary.
I'll use the capital D as well here.
So d equals dict and then I'm going to create the first key will be the equations with X and let's set
that one equal to the first equation was four times x minus six.
And then the second equation was x squared minus nine.
So this is the first key.
And the list containing the values associated with this key.
And then we have the equations with Y.
And that was just that one equation.
So that was sympy dot sine of Y.
All right.
So now I'm going to run this cell just to make sure we don't get any errors and let's see.
And I'm going to set up a for loop.
I'll call this key-i in D.
So the first thing I want to do is print out a message, let's say print solutions for equations involving
and then this is going to have to be either X or Y depending on whether we're working with this key
or this key.
So it's a plus and then key i.
And then maybe a semicolon in here.
Okay.
So I'm going to run this now and see how the output looks.
Okay so this looks kind of okay.
Solutions for equations involving equals with X. So that doesn't really look super nice.
I think we can clean this up somehow.
The way that I'm going to clean this up is by taking advantage of the fact that first of all this key
is a string.
And second of all, these keys end with the key variable that I want.
So I want to access the last character inside this string and you'll remember from when I introduced
you to slicing and indexing that you can get the last character by typing minus one.
So now we have solution for equations involving X and those involving Y.
Great.
So we're doing pretty well, we're off to a good start.
Now what I need to do is loop through all of the equations that are inside the values, inside each dictionary
key.
So that means I need another loop.
So how about four and then let's say e q I for the I S equation in D, and then the key corresponding
to key i.
Okay.
So we need to print out a bunch of stuff.
I'm actually going to separate this into a few different things.
So let's say I'm going to have the left part and actually now I'm going to switch back to the slides for
a moment just so I can give you first an idea of how I'm going to go about solving this problem. So you
can see that there are like three parts to what we want to print out here.
There is the equation itself on the left, and then there's a big space and an arrow and a big space.
So this is this I'll call this the left part.
This I'll call the middle part, and then the right part, that's where I show the variable and the actual
solution.
Okay.
So that's what I'm going to do now in Python.
So we have the left part and that equals the equation which is eqi.
And then I want to convert this into latex code, and then I want to add onto it equals zero, and that's
because these equations on their own are just implicitly set to zero.
They're not actually explicitly including the equals sign and the zero.
Okay.
So now before moving further, let's just start printing out and make sure that we can get at least
as left part here a signal display and then math and left part.
Now I haven't yet imported the display and math function.
So let's say from IPython dot display, import display comma.
Math.
Oh and I get an error here and that's because this should be math with a capital M.
All right.
So far things are looking good.
We have the solution for equation involving X and it's these two equations and the solutions for the
equations involving y.
And it's this one equation. Looking nice, set to zero.
Okay.
So now I want the middle part, and that's going to be a space and then a right arrow, so right
arrow and then another space.
All right.
And now I'm going to concatenate the left part by the middle part and see how this looks.
All right, good.
So we get the equation set to zero.
We have the arrow in here and now we need to display the actual solution.
So that's going to be the right part and the right part is the actual solution.
So I'm going to say sym dot solve.
And then a solution to eqi.
And then I need to convert this to latex, so sym dot latex like this.
And now let's see how this is looking.
Okay.
So it's getting better, we are getting somewhere.
So we have the equations set to zero.
We have the solutions.
And now I want to write in here explicitly the variable and then the equals sign.
So I'm going to put that in this middle part here.
So let's say I will use the plus sign here for a string concatenation.
I want to say X for these two and y for these two and I've already figured out how to do that here.
So copy and paste.
And then another string concatenation equals.
And then this is all the middle part.
And so then the right part is going to be this.
And something doesn't look quite right here.
So what's actually happening here is that there is no space after the quad and before the letter X or
the letter Y and so latex is actually running into trouble because there is no latex keyword for
quad X..
So we just need an extra space in here.
This is looking really good.
The only difference compared to what I showed in the slides was that these were indented a little bit.
So therefore let's say quad.
And I think it was two quads like this.
Plus this.
All right.
This looks really nice.
We have the solutions printed out here.
The actual solutions.
And so on.
So in this video you learned about Python dictionaries and you learned how to be patient and persistent
when solving difficult code challenges.
The key to solving this code challenge, or my approach to solving this code challenge, was to go through
methodically and check my results
each time I add one or two lines of code. I think that's generally a good way to go about writing
code.
You know, you just do a little bit at a time and you keep checking your results to make sure that you
are slowly but steadily making progress.